Okay, I'm sorry you said that.
Yeah, no problem.
This we can't make sure at the moment.
We can do this at the moment for these electronic publications on physical carriers, on handheld electronic publications.
But we can't do this at the moment for online publications.
We have two reasons for that.
we have no definition what is really an online publication and when is this online publication ready so we try to do some projects together with publishers that we get a message or something like that from the publishers which say
Well, this is an authorized, finished online publication.
And do they do that?
Well, Springer is doing that.
We start our project with Springer.
It's a publisher?
It's a publisher.
S-P-R-I-N-G-E-R.
Yeah, right.
And, well...
They are working with these digital object identifiers so that we can really be sure that this is an online publication.
I don't understand how you can be sure.
So if they don't tell you that it's coming online, so you know it's an online publication, but an issue here is does it exist in any other form, right?
So they're telling you this is the only... No, they can tell us, well, this is the printed form, for instance, and this is an online form.
So we will collect both of them at the moment.
Even if they're identical, you'll collect both.
even if they are identical.
Well, because we say it's not only the content, but it's also the form of the publication.
That's important here to you.
Yeah, of course.
There are some places where it's not.
Yeah, that's right.
In the United States, may I say.
You know that.
I mean, Cornell was usually working.
I've been up there.
I know, yes.
And that's very interesting to me.
Well, that's our character of an archive library.
And while we also have, of course... Explain that.
We'll go on with that a little bit, if you don't mind.
Well, we... But not all archive libraries.
It's the character of your archive library.
Because we have to collect all publications.
Our legal deposit means that we have to collect all publications.
And it's not important whether they are printed or on CD-ROM or online, but it's important that they are publications, they are the same things, the same, well, at least contents in it, but in different forms.
And up to now we also collect
different copies of the same publications.
If you have the first copy in 1975 for instance and the second copy in 1982 then we collected these things up to this year.
This year we stopped these so we will not collect any longer
Same books, but different copy editions.
Just to repeat though, you say that it is the character of this archive that you keep a copy of everything in every form.
The form is of equal importance to the content.
Right.
This is right.
If you have a copy printed and a copy online, so we try to collect books.
And if I were to tell you of an institution in the United States, for instance, that has correspondence that originated from the founder of this institution.
Now, to this hand, let's say, but this is before there was carbon paper or Xerox machines.
And if they have decided that they are going to just scan this correspondence and then dispose of the originals, you'd probably be horrified.
Right.
Wouldn't you?
I am.
I personally, absolutely.
We keep both.
We keep all.
Again, I tend to like it.
I can only imagine that I can scan these things to give access to a wider circle as a tool.
You see, we are doing a project.
We have a department in our library which is called Exile.
Exile.
That means we collect all these things in connection with exiled peoples during Sinati period.
Of course, we collect a lot of letters and handwritten things and all these things, but we also collect printed journals from that time.
These journals are in a very bad condition.
So we try to scan them and use the scanned images as a tool to give access, wider access to these materials.
But of course we will do everything to keep the original materials.
This means we are an archive library.
we to keep also the original materials, not only the converted form.
Is this exile archive kept here?
Yeah.
Is that the name of it?
Deutsches Exilarchiv.
That's interesting to me.
Again, because this is, again, an expression of your mandate.
You're not allowing political considerations to dictate
the kinds of things that you're going to collect.
You're going to collect everything because it does reflect on the history of your country.
This to me is what a library is supposed to be doing.
Yeah.
That's fascinating.
And the form is very important.
Yeah.
Because the form is an expression in itself.
So we keep, and you can see examples tomorrow in Leipzig, even the form if the book is given in a...
In a hardcover and leather binding.
So we keep both, we do.
Yeah, of course.
Of course.
You'd be amazed at how many people... There are universities in my country where if a book isn't used for five years,
Well, a university library can do that, but a national archive library, they can't do that.
Well, LC has discarded some things, you know, they'll admit... I know, yes.
They're not proud of that, but they have, they have deaccessioned some things.
That word isn't even in your vocabulary, isn't it, deaccessioned?
No, and if you can imagine, this is, for instance, a book,
But we will keep also distinction.
The book and the election.
And this, which you're showing me, is like, for the sake of my tape recorder, just the case.
Yeah, we will keep also the case.
Well, the Library of Congress, when a new book comes in, as a matter of policy, this is very interesting, because I was interviewing somebody there, and they had taken out my book, and there was my book.
And I said, geez, what happened to the dust jacket?
She said, oh, we throw away dust jackets.
No, we don't.
When the book comes in, they immediately remove the dust jacket.
We keep it.
It's part of the book.
It's part of the publication.
And it's interesting for future researchers, perhaps.
because for instance you can follow the developing of those dust keepers dust jackets and how they develop from the color from the material oh i agree from the the paintings not only that there's very interesting biographical material right that you that you can find no place else and especially you find in early novels like faulkner you'll find somebody else some great author saying something about this author yeah
that they published on the jacket that you can't find anyplace else.
It's very, very worthwhile as a researcher.
That's what we think, and for that reason we keep it.
Well, so all right, what if now there seems to be a trend today where they will publish books with different covers?
You'll have one with a red cover, one with a green cover.
Biggest marketing seems to indicate that this works.
try and get examples of all the different covers?
Of course.
You will.
If you know about it, obviously.
Well, I'm not sure whether we really will do that in all cases.
But I think we will do it, of course, for examples, for having examples of these things.
And one of our...
Partners is the so-called Stiftung Buchkunst.
It's a foundation which deals with art of making books and design of books.
What was the name of the organization?
Stiftung Buchkunst.
It's part of our library, so you will have it in your... If you get the information, it will be... This is great.
I'm glad I came.
This is very important.
So you can see examples in the exhibition at the moment.
Oh, I'm sorry.
We had an exhibition done by the Stiftung Buchkunst, but now they change it for the Book Fair.
which is coming next year.
Are you a librarian by training?
I'm a librarian, yeah.
Well, in Germany, it's a little bit difficult to say I'm a librarian because we have, in our education, we have three possibilities to be a librarian.
Shortly after school, high school,
You can have two years education to be a librarian of a lower level.
Then after, it's three years now?
But we don't do it, so.
Well, and a second possibility was to have your, what we call, abitur.
That means, well, the last examination in school.
you have to go to school 13 years, then you have an examination, and this examination allows you to study.
It's not comparable to college or something.
Because in the apprenticeship and internship.
Yeah.
Yes, you need it just to study at the university.
I see.
And then you can study
in a three year time for librarianship and then you are a librarian of a middle degree or something like that so your background also is a librarian and then the third possibilities and that is what I did you have to study a normal study
For instance, I studied civil engineering and afterwards few sciences.
And then you have to do two years education.
It's a long time.
You know, in the United States, library schools are disappearing.
They're closing them.
And the places that are replacing them are, they call them information schools, where the focus is entirely on computers and stuff like that.
So there really is a movement away from book culture as we know it.
I think it will be the same development in Germany.
You can see it in some parts already.
So it's more to information handling and such things than to real library science.
You can't avoid it, can you?
No, no, no.
And I think this development is important, but you have to keep, of course, parts of what we call library science.
You will have books.
And if you see at the moment that we have a yearly 300,000 things coming in in our library, and only 5% of these
300,000, at the highest, I would say, 5%, are electronic publications.
Yeah, of course.
I think it's around, not more than 10,000 a year.
A week ago, a month ago, I was in San Francisco for a week.
I don't know if you've been following what's been going on out there with their libraries, a big story.
They built a new library.
The day it opened, they didn't have enough room for all the books.
They sent 200,000 books to the landfill, to the dump, and this is a public library.
Of course, the fellow who built this place wanted the library of the future.
I mean, the attitude there was computers and electronics.
We want to be the library of the future, of course, but on the other hand side, we see that there are still books, and we have to keep them.
And this is...
Our idea is to have books and electronic information on the same level, I have to say.
This is Germany where the printing press was invented.
I'm going there this afternoon.
I think this is very important.
It would be horrific if this were the country that we're moving away from the printed book.
It really pleases me to see that it's just the opposite.
That's great.
Good.
I think that's all I can talk about.
Do you have your email addresses here?
It's on this card.
And so if I have any questions, I can... You're welcome to do this.
Thank you.
So, thank you.
You said it's done like a landscape.
We're talking about the reading rooms?
The upper floor is called the Pediatrics.
We offer about 800
Periodic is just for the users, they can sell themselves.
In the main floor, it's mainly a reference library, catalog, working sources, and table sports.
And bounce class, it's a multimedia reading room.
So it's on several levels actually.
Yes, it's three.
In this panel downstairs is the entrance to the Jan Exile Archive.
When was that established?
It was established quite early.
We started with the Dolce, we were taking time at about 46.
And it's, I don't know exactly, because we have no exact base form of foundation, and since it was quite a cause of the Second World War, and things started any time.
But it was a library material from that period, would you say?
Yes, but the library itself starts collecting from the 8th of May, 1945.
But this material is from 1933,
This material we know?
The German Exile Archive.
That I would really like to see actually.
Yes, very good.
I tried to make a date.
And that we have still books and not only online conversations.
we wanted to explain him the importance of books fast and the we have a competition and we got the books not the contents but the
The design, the book as an object, as an artifact.
So all of these books we're looking at here are entries into a competition, is that what it is?
Yes, that's right.
It's about 700 books every year, 700 to 800 books.
And you pick winners?
We pick winners at 50, about 50 every year.
And we have a jury.
And various criteria.
So the winners in some... Well, what are the different criteria?
Is it for design?
Do you understand a little bit, Julie?
Yes, I will gift you.
Okay.
Yes, if you have a... Yes, my daughter speaks perfect.
My daughter speaks perfect, Julie.
So she...
Categories, I guess.
Categories, yes.
I can't remember the special words.
Printing and reproduction.
Reproduction.
I can get some of this.
Binding, paper.
Yes, I understand this.
This is the technique and this is conception.
I understand more than I realize.
May I have this?
And the jury makes the signs in this paper, and the sender of the book gets a copy of this testy.
So this is done under the auspices of the Younger Descimation here.
This is done under the auspices of the library, or this foundation is independent of the library?
No, it's independent, but it gets money from different... Please pay it.
It's okay.
My bones are traveling all day.
I can't sit over.
I'm sitting all the day now.
The man comes from the towns of Frankfurt and Leipzig.
We have also some fondants in Leipzig.
From Börsenverein of Deutschen Buchhandels and Deutsche Bibliothek.
Well, what's interesting is, as Professor Neiman pointed out this morning, this library originally was founded through the efforts of the publishers.
Yes.
So this would be almost...
they would really be very supportive of a competition that would recognize excellence in bookmaking, I guess.
So it's consistent with everything that you've done.
I think the start of the Stiftung Buchkunst was done by the Börsenverein, too.
Yes, the Bukra.
Yes.
It was in the 20s.
No, no, no.
No, the Bukra, this big exhibition.
Ah, Bukra.
Bukra, that's right.
But this organization, like we are here, is founded in 1951.
Really?
It took quite some time.
Yes.
I have in my mind that there was in the 20th an exhibition in Leipzig about Bug and Grafik.
And this exhibition was prepared
I suppose by the time.
And I think this was the beginning of the competition.
There was a competition beginning 1928 to 1932.
Four competitions.
And then it was forbidden by the Ritterreich Nazi regime.
Why would they forbid it?
Oh, you know, books are very dangerous and pictures.
Yes.
And then a new beginning started in the Philippines.
Here and also parallels in Eastern Germany.
And since 1989 we are together.
Good.
Excellent.
Are you coming to the book fair this year?
I was going to, but I think I'll come next year.
This was more important to me, actually.
The idea is to have books that correlate in an optimal manner with their contents.
Yes.
The outfit, the layout from the pages, the pictures.
And so you were mentioning in children's books...
They should be attractive, but they have to be sturdy, durable.
Durable is probably the word.
A beautiful book.
That's a tough corner to make.
The content goes together with the art of presentation.
That's the Gutenberg Museum.
Good.
The British Library used American oak, actually.
This is beautiful.
Oh, I can't.
Anything is done from this place.
We are now under the earth.
And the region of the rocks are quite large fields.
It's about 10,000 meters in square.
I see.
And because the distances are very long, we have those materials.
These are little vehicles, so like... Yes, electric.
Like an auto scooter.
Professor Lehman said I could take a few pictures, do you mind?
Say again please.
The point of the Deutsche Bibliothek.
The idea of the Deutsche Bibliothek is to collect everything that is published in Germany, that is published in German language.
Just keep talking.
This is going, so I think it's taping.
I'm just going to take a picture of the... While you talk, go ahead.
And so we have a lot of things that will never be used, that will never be erased.
And it could be...
too much effort to find a systematic way of teaching the books.
What I want to do is get a picture there of some of the coding on it.
So you understand that these books will never be read?
We just know it from experience.
And if you look through the title, it will never be used.
How can you tell that from the title, that it will never be used?
Oh, we have a lot of religious books, or school books, or how to manage some obscure things, or editorial things, or poems.
And our pastors, over here,
It can be used only by scientific people.
So, scientific students and teachers and so on will never, probably, never come into such a thing.
You're a very famous author.
Of course, yes.
But I'm sure there are a lot of things
So this is very easy for me.
This is D74.
That's the 15,547th book.
It's just so ridiculously easy.
So you really do need computers for this.
And what do you call this system?
That's your system, right?
Numerous current.
Say again, I'm sorry?
N-U-M, numerals.
Yes.
What was the second word?
C-U-R-R.
C-U-R-R, yeah.
What does that mean, I wonder?
Oh, current, current.
Current, yeah, current numerals.
It probably means chronological, is what it means.
The only difference we make is we separate books that are bigger.
By size.
By size, they are in another.
But do they still keep the same number?
They keep the... But we have one more character.
Which indicates where it is.
Indicates it.
Where it is, yeah.
We have now changed since the unification is like this.
We changed the number, but we still retain.
We now do not use any longer the theme.
But instead of the D, we have 1974.
So why don't you use D?
Oh, because that just applies to here, probably.
What's the number of the letter you use now?
We have now, for instance, one, nine, nine, seven, eight, two, three, four, five, six.
Okay.
So this is the year.
The character...
A means this size, and this is the current size.
And we will have perhaps B, which is bigger size, and we have some special for the cards and places and things like that.
Amazingly efficient.
But it's very efficient.
Everybody knows what it is.
That's great.
See, I wouldn't know this if you didn't bring me down here.
What do you think?
If you use any system at it, you have to keep... Space.
Space.
And you know, library has another space now.
See, D75, that's 1975, 76, 77.
So what I'm looking at is D75.
It goes all the way down to...
So 5, 6, 7, 7, 8, 7, 9, 80, 80, 280, down there, and then it comes back to 85.
So you cover really 10 years here.
Yes.
At the end of the house, we cover the first 30 years.
We start in this corner with the left side down with 9 to 45.
It's only one and a half meters.
And these are all books published in Germany in that year.
So, this is the beginning of our collection.
Racine.
Phaedra.
So, Racine, Phaedra.
I just, I wonder what number it is, that's why, so it's D46536.
And this is his cool textbook.
Perfect.
Now that's, see this is the kind of stuff I'm interested in.
And really, I know it sounds crazy.
But believe me, it's going to make for a very good book.
Yeah, I think it's always the practice that's important, not the huge idea.
This is the way Samuel Pepys kept his library.
Did you know that?
He actually shelved it according to size.
The title meant nothing.
All the little ones started here, and they went all the way up to the big ones.
But then he had a catalog of how you went to find them.
The only difficulty is,
If you change in your mind the numbers and put it on the wrong face, you will never find it again.
So it is so important to have skilled people.
Yes.
You must be very careful.
Cushion is the word.
Yes.
And does that happen often?
We miss something.
Maybe...
That's why you'll never find it if you put it in the wrong place.
Yeah, but there's no, it could be because it's random in terms of
You have no idea where it could be put, because there's nothing... Under 47, you can have it under 1,000... There's no way to know, and there's no way to look because it's not alphabetical and it's not by subject.
No, no.
We should control books like that.
So it's here and the current family.
but what i what i like very much from this point of view this is the literature from 46 45 47 it's gray and brown and have a look over there it's called the 74 it's colored in those task uh yes people no no dust
Dust jackets.
Dust wrappers, they say in... That's a funny word.
That's what we say in America, but I think in Britain they call them wrappers.
They just call them wrappers in England, but we call them dust jackets.
D-U-S-T.
No, the English word.
Wrappers.
W-R-A-P-P.
E.R.S.
You wrap it like a wrapper.
And then we call it a dust jacket.
I think it's a very describing word.
It is, yeah.
Well, it's a metaphor, actually.
And I think you have time enough and you... A little dust?
Sacred dust.
That looks nice.
So I think
and how to do, those subjects are very important.
And the texts that I've written here, sometimes it's short, or some other poets that write, some words too.
Well, it could be out, right?
Yes.
And there could be, just like that, as you call a deputy.
Oh, so when a book is removed, you put in a deputy?
Yes, you put in a deputy.
And this should be one part of the landing paper, just to find an example.
Look, that's good, that's good.
This is a working deputy.
This is the part of the lending piece that the user has to form.
And then you know that a book belongs there when it comes back.
Where are we standing right now?
We have about two million items.
And where are we just again?
We are in the first underground floor.
First underground floor.
Two million items.
And how many underground floors do you have?
We have three of them.
The third is absolutely empty.
And the second is about half empty.
Okay, good.
Back to the future.
2040.
That's what they told me, yeah.
One of seven fictions.
Hold this again to me, please.
Can I take a picture?
Okay.
Good.
Come on now.
It's my daughter's camera.
Why isn't it?
See, I should have brought my Nikons after all.
I wanted to get those numbers, but that's okay.
I'm going to get myself a Leica.
before i go back i think they're very they're very reasonably priced here but a little leica that i that i can carry with me on these trips because when i'm writing these pictures are very useful they don't have to be beautiful it's just it's just visual it gives me the colors gives me uh you know when you have a picture of it it's uh
It's so heavy.
The ritual on it, this is the, you know, like this stuff.
Oh, yes.
Yes, you can have this.
Can I have this?
Yes.
This is not from our library, but... I can take it.
Yeah.
John, there's passos.
What is this stuff, I wonder?
I think it's just a prospect to offer.
I can take some of these, right?
I like different things.
And this explains what this unit is all about, right?
So can I take these two?
one of each I like my daughter's I think that's the same oh that's the same no that's different that's this process and that's that's got two different titles oh it is okay yep yep yep we're looking at a different size so this this um where are the material so this is a card catalog the last part of the card catalog indeed the materials are special stocks behind this one I see so this was and this is a this is a vault
Hello, I see.
This is manuscript material.
Could you show me, give me an example of what's in here?
but I have a lot of important important things here but I have a lot of important things here I have a lot of important things here I have a lot of important things here in Rabensbrück and Trader and Margarete Uwe Neumann schreibt which is also perfect but that is what modern is also what new is but we have a lot of important things
So this is more or less the vault, right?
This is the rare material that's in here?
Yes, the imprinted.
And the most expensive glass are... ...all the famous of Einstein.
Really?
Where was this material acquired?
I mean, it was purchased, or it was... How do you get exiled materials, I wonder?
Bought by Professor Nahles.
It is an opera.
If somebody dies, the family gives up what the author left behind.
And we buy it at auctions.
Some people offer it for us.
And we have Mrs. Barnett.
in the United States.
He's always looking.
What's his name?
He is here at the moment.
Today he is here.
I won't be able to see him.
What's his name?
S-P-A-M-E.
So this is called the exile?
German exile archive.
Okay.
You'll find something in this.
This is a special library in the library.
I love vaults.
Yeah.
good good okay sorry to the wish institute i'm sorry no it's a pc i see okay um and they have an online catalog oh that's the leo beck institute that's what you're saying yes
And they do the same stuff, right?
The same material.
I'll talk to them.
I wish they'll be able to tell me about this, huh?
Okay.
I take everything.
Everything you let me have, I can take.
Did I get everything that they were going to give me, these press kits, right?
Yes, I think that's the most, yes.
Okay, good, good.
a book that informs about the Deutsche Bibliothek.
So I think it's a small exhibition, the things this department has done, and they told me here are... This is Exile Literature again.
And here we have a telephone from Arnold Zweif.
Joseph Roth, Einstein.
Pen Club in Exile.
Where is it?
Albert Einstein to Paul Frankel, Princeton, 1944.
February 27, 1944.
What's the content?
What is he writing about, I wonder?
They talk about a plan.
Then Paul Francis sent a brochure to Einstein.
I mean, does it deal with the war, because the war is still going on at this point?
Yes.
They suppose one government for all over the world.
So he's proposing one?
He's proposing something.
A single government, a single world government, which we're never going to see.
But there, he's realistic enough to say that the single states will not give part of their power to such a central government of the world.
It's just an idea.
that this is a recognition of things that happened in history that you're acknowledging with the future.
We collect these things that were published before the end of the second world, despite of the fact that the collection is such an author.
The first director of the Dwarf Review was so he knew the problem concerning all the Jewish people.
And I think that's why he became the first officer from friends, political friends, and he offered them their materials and materials.
So this is not meant to be a definitive library in any way.
It's still growing slowly, but there are still some pieces found that we will not have until now.
I think it's the biggest collection of these materials.
And I think it's important that the government recognizes it so that this is done as a matter of government policy.
We had the official opening of the library, and he was shown things too, and he was shown a letter he wrote himself when men died and he had written to the widow.
Very good.
To build a library?
You can build a house, you can enjoy the art of the library, and the idea is to build with it.
And so, the contents of what the library needs are its contents.
And his idea was, or when he thinks the word, or hears the word library, he imagines or has a huge wall.
The witcher?
Baroque.
This will be the architect talking?
We offer here some reference findings.
It's beautiful.
It's really lovely.
Look at that.
It's wonderful.
Wonderful.
My wife always says, if you can take enough pictures.
So I'm taking more.
That's nice.
I know it's awkward, but this is the way I always am.
This is so beautiful.
Come on now.
Why isn't he taking the picture?
You should go.
Okay.
Oh, that might even be better.
I work with photographs, with tapes, and with notes.
Can I have my notebook?
I'll just write some notes too.
every one of these books that i write this is now about the 40th notebook i have just for this book and then i have a whole my whole house is my whole basement is filled with materials this is really gorgeous congratulations it's striking we have an elevator in the middle you know
It's very busy too.
Mm-hmm.
One more shot, and that'll be it.
I'm going to do the whole hole, 25 feet.
I won't do anything.
I'm just going to hear it.
Oh, concrete.
Concrete, glass, wood, and we have metal.
Concrete, glass, wood, and steel, I guess.
of course but it's with a very nice tones too they're not a very very dark
Until today, that's pretty good.
Well, that's the idea.
This is your courtyard here.
This is the last picture.
Now it's rewinding.
But it's not a professional camera.
But Nikon, Leica makes one like this for professionals.
And the Contax is a beautiful German camera too.
I have them from this.
My favorites.
My favorite cameras are the ones I got in the 1960s.
Two Nikons, which I got overseas.
Oh, sure.
Right here.
Look at that.
You see the conception from it.